Readme.md, before:

## Chat Program (C++)

I worked with a partner to create a very simple network chat application. There are two chat applications, a server and a client. The server needs to be launched first.

These were originally created with Visual Studio 2019. When trying to compile with Visual Studio 2022, it may complain about outdated build tools. If this happens, the Visual Studio solution (.sln) files for both the client and server projects will need to be retargeted for the updated build tools.

---

## DVD Collection App (Java)

I created a rudimentary DVD collection application with a text-based UI to be used through a terminal. It supports 6 functions: adding new entry, changing existing entry, searching for entry, display by category, remove entry, and saving data.

---

## Data Vusualization (R)

This demonstrates that I have some experience in using R to generate meaningful visualizations. The HW5Answers.txt shows my reasoning and responses to questions posed by the professor. The pdf file in this folder shows the plots that should be generated by the code in HW5.R

---

## HTML & CSS

In the Using Templates folder is a few websites I made while I was learning how to work with HTML and CSS. For these I edited a Bootstrap template, so I was also learning how to work with the Bootstrap library as well. I experimented with making tools, like a converter and a to-do list.

The From Scratch folder contains a site that I made with a bare bones starter template from Bootstrap's website, to better learn how to use Bootstrap. In contrast to the previous template I used, this one required me to create my own elements and assign Boostrap classes to them.

---

## SQL

_IMPORTANT: This was written for **Oracle's** SQL syntax._

This demonstrates that I have basic working knowledge of SQL. It was written using Oracle's SQL*PLUS, to which access was provided to me by East Carolina University.

Context for the schema: Members can borrow books from the library. The number of books they can borrow is limited by the “limit” field of the Member relation (it may differ for different members). The category of a book includes fiction, non-fiction, children’s and reference. The CurrentLoan table represents the information about books that are currently checked out. When the book is returned to the library, the record will be removed from CurrentLoad relation, and will be inserted into History relation with the return-date. A library may have more than one copy of the same book, in which case each copy has its own bookID, but all copies share the same ISBN.

Retested in Feb 2022 using SQL Fiddle (sqlfiddle.com) and it works as expected. Table creation and insertion commands were copypasted into Fiddle's Schema panel. The queries are copypasted into the Query panel.

_NOTE: The 'drop table' commands exist to prevent conflicts while using SQL*PLUS, especially when being run multiple times for testing. SQL Fiddle will complain about them and prevent the schema from being built, so those lines should be removed if testing on SQL Fiddle._

Commit message:

update readme to include Questlog

Readme.md, after:

## Chat Program (C++)

I worked with a partner to create a very simple network chat application. There are two chat applications, a server and a client. The server needs to be launched first.

These were originally created with Visual Studio 2019. When trying to compile with Visual Studio 2022, it may complain about outdated build tools. If this happens, the Visual Studio solution (.sln) files for both the client and server projects will need to be retargeted for the updated build tools.

---

## DVD Collection App (Java)

I created a rudimentary DVD collection application with a text-based UI to be used through a terminal. It supports 6 functions: adding new entry, changing existing entry, searching for entry, display by category, remove entry, and saving data.

---

## Data Vusualization (R)

This demonstrates that I have some experience in using R to generate meaningful visualizations. The HW5Answers.txt shows my reasoning and responses to questions posed by the professor. The pdf file in this folder shows the plots that should be generated by the code in HW5.R

---

## HTML & CSS

In the Using Templates folder is a few websites I made while I was learning how to work with HTML and CSS. For these I edited a Bootstrap template, so I was also learning how to work with the Bootstrap library as well. I experimented with making tools, like a converter and a to-do list.

The From Scratch folder contains a site that I made with a bare bones starter template from Bootstrap's website, to better learn how to use Bootstrap. In contrast to the previous template I used, this one required me to create my own elements and assign Boostrap classes to them.

---

## Questlog (flask web app)

I worked with a partner to create this web app during my final semester as an undergrad. This app followed the model-view-controller pattern. The components of the app are: a PostGRES database, the user interface accessible via browser, and the flask app itself. The flask app communicates with a browser using HTML and CSS served by jinja templates. The app communicates with the database with SQL statements served by a cursor from the psycopg python library.

The purpose of the app is to serve as a personal tracker for games a user has played, is playing, or wants to play. It has a note taking feature and a way to mark games as favorite. All changes are reflected in the PostGRES database. An account feature was planned and prototyped, but never fully implemented. As such, this app is meant to be run locally and for one user only.

---

## SQL

_IMPORTANT: This was written for **Oracle's** SQL syntax._

This demonstrates that I have basic working knowledge of SQL. It was written using Oracle's SQL*PLUS, to which access was provided to me by East Carolina University.

Context for the schema: Members can borrow books from the library. The number of books they can borrow is limited by the “limit” field of the Member relation (it may differ for different members). The category of a book includes fiction, non-fiction, children’s and reference. The CurrentLoan table represents the information about books that are currently checked out. When the book is returned to the library, the record will be removed from CurrentLoad relation, and will be inserted into History relation with the return-date. A library may have more than one copy of the same book, in which case each copy has its own bookID, but all copies share the same ISBN.

Retested in Feb 2022 using SQL Fiddle (sqlfiddle.com) and it works as expected. Table creation and insertion commands were copypasted into Fiddle's Schema panel. The queries are copypasted into the Query panel.

_NOTE: The 'drop table' commands exist to prevent conflicts while using SQL*PLUS, especially when being run multiple times for testing. SQL Fiddle will complain about them and prevent the schema from being built, so those lines should be removed if testing on SQL Fiddle._
